---
layout: default
title: Week 1
parent: March 2024
nav_order: 1
---

| Goal | Notes |                                                                                
| ----------- | ----------- |
|(W)| |
|(PH)| |
|(R)|Group meeting |
|ANN|Figure out what needs to be done |
|(O)| |


## March 7

**ANN** I will have to restart the processes with a run id of 1, after switching off the computers.
In the meantime, what am I supposed to do?

The data that I am now generating starts reading data generated by ANNs with 2 input layers, 5 internal layers, and a size of 10. There is another parameter. It is the run number.
Clearly, the BMS will generate the expressions that best explain the data generated by the ANNs.

I plotted some data but they did not make any sense. I should have checked whether the results made sense before.

Everything points out to an increase in the MDL, which is very weird. Ok, I think I've got it better now.

**R** AMOC collapse
I have done the background. I should answer one question:

1. Why autocorrelations and variance are signals of tipping points.

Then, I can start reading the paper and what they are doing. How would I do that? The question is what did they do (models with paleodata, probably) and how did they do it.

**O** I can create empty files with the "touch" command.
cat allows you to display the contents of a file or even to create a file. It also allows you to create a file with specific contents. That's what the code does.

## March 8

**R** Science Advances
They did not do this before because it was impossible to run such a heavy simulation.
SST - Sea Surface Temperature
The novelty is their quasiequilibrium approach and the fact that they do find a tipping event. R is the ratio of change to forcing. If you force the system a lot, you get small numbers. That means that you are forcing the system so much, that you hide the internal feedback mechanisms. If R is large, you are introducing a small forcing.

"The differences in important ocean observables between the two different AMOC states (averages over model years 2151 to 2200 minus years 1 to 50) are presented in fig. S3". My understanding of this sentence, is that there is some sort of pseudo-validation of the model here: I look at the rest of the model for plausible behaviors of the Earth System to see if they are consistent with AMOC tipping.

I have the main results under control. Time to move on.

**ANN**
I think what is going on here is that the code takes all the 20 traces generated by the BMS in the 20 runs.
This works, then. But I need to figure out the following steps. What would I do if I was by myself?
Comparing the approach to something else sounds reasonable.

Your loop runs over the parameter "dataid". So you are reading different data on each iteration. Or so you would thinkg. Because that is not what is happening, apparently.
If we look at the bash script, the loop is running over 'dataid', while mantaining a constant 'runid'.
I probably did not run the data the way I expected to. I do not have a single round of dataid.
Dataid should be constant and run over all runids.

I think I should rerun the processess taking this into consideration, so that at least I have a whole round of dataid processes by Monday.
I could start with 0. And then I start from runid number 2, because I already have 0 and 1. That should give me all runs for dataid=0

Because I am going to leave this running the whole weekend, I might as well, run at least dataid=1.
Ok, so I have three processes running now:
There is a process running over all dataids with a runid of 1
There is a process running over all runids (from 2 to 19) for dataid=0
And there is a final process running over all runids (from 2 to 19) for dataid=1

The first process is right now on runid 2, for dataid=1. I've stopped it now.
I can do dataid=2 and all runids.

Summary:
1. I was not running the processes properly.
2. I fixed the dataid to 0,1,2
3. Three processes are running for these dataids and over all runids between 0 and 19.

Check the status of the processes on Monday.