--
layout: default
title: Week 1
parent: February 2024
nav_order: 1
---


| Goal | Notes |
| ----------- | ----------- |
|(W)|Relative error and log-ratio |
|(PH)| |
|(R)|Tipping elements paper |
|(Code)|ANN. Produce 1d result |
|(O)|Finish BP paperwork |


## February 5

**code** ANN 1d

The first thing I need here is to properly represent the data.
And I need a 2d figure for that. What is the best way to represent that?
So for the first two figures, just a plot figure might do the job.

Ok, I did this

**code** ANN 1d

I cannot run the BMS on a single variable for some reason I do not understand.

Ok, so let's see what is going on here. So you have time, prediction lenght, expression, values of parameters and something else I don't understand.
He trims some of this dataset and plots H agains step

And now he reads actual data (probably generated by the ANNs?) And then puts it into a dataframe. Let's get back to this in cell 7

ok, so in cell 7, he will take the minimum value of H with the corresponding parameter values
.
In cell 8, he's importing a file with priors for certain number of variables and parameters.
Then he builds a tree and uses the data as an input. He uses the data points.
That tree probably has the model produced by the BMS.

I think this is what happens:
 You take an excel file with lots of mathematical equations (a BMS run, probably)
 You select the one with the minimum description length

On the other hand, you read some data into a dataframe.

You build a tree with those data and get the equation from the machine scientist.
And you plot the data and the result of the machine scientist. So far, there is nothing else and you had correclty interpreted things.

Now, how do you make this happen in 1d? At least you know better what is going here...


So suppose you get the data. Should you have just two dimensions?
Ok, I understand now why you got those weird curves...
So at the very least, you will have two dimensions. Or two independent variables.
You could have a subset of your dataset in which you had x2=0. That is another way to have a one-dimensional dataset.

Ok, this works. What other things could you possibly do?
I could try different priors and see what the error looks like.

I could try to understand what is going on with the parameters, because I keep seeing 10 of them.

Maybe going after all datasets would be a good idea for tomorrow. What would I be getting out of that? I don't really know. A larger sample, for one. And more practice.
I could play with different priors on a different loop.

I wonder where the neural networks are here.

## February 7

**R** Tipping elements and climate – economic shocks: Pathwaystoward integrated assessment

They question the use of "tipping point" in climate science. I see the first item they question is how abrupt tipping elements are. They also question the economic dimension of tipping points in climate:
'The literature on the costs of climate change often draws a link between climatic “tippingpoints” and large economic shocks, frequently called “catastrophes.” '

'We propose terminology to clarify thedistinction between “tipping points” in the popular sense, the critical thresholds exhibited by climatic and social “tipping elements,” and “economic shocks.”'

The abruptness can be circumvented with our relevant timescale concept.

Tipping point in ecology appears to be synonimous with "ecological threshold" or "regime shift".
The figure depicts several systems in which you apply an increasing forcing, and then you release abruptly. Everything happens linearly.

Response without positive feedbacks: the forcing does not activate a self-perpetuating mechanism.
c and d include a time and forcing lag, respectively.

"the difference between “committed” and “realized”change gives rise to a scale-invariant distinction." I don't understand the sentence. Is it important?


## February 8

**W** BP

You need to explain what has been done in terms of predicting critical thresholds in tipping elements. And how, while it being good is not enough.
You will also need to discuss models for tipping elements.

**code** I am going to do a bit of the ANN project now. After all, I should be doing more than one thing at a time.

Ok, so what is the next thing I should be doing?
Do I want to do this for every dataset?
Do I want to do this for every prior?

## February 9

**O** This is a test